Capricorn sign is ruled by the planet Saturn, which gives people born under this sign peace, patience, perseverance and ambition. These people are able to put maximum effort into work they have chosen to do or which they were told to do. They are friendly and cheerful people, but in their essence they are serious and responsible, and everything they do is based on these attitudes. 


They are very strong-willed and therefore usually achieve what they want and do not leave anything to chance. In business dealings they will adhere to well-defined contracts, and they will adhere to good practices during research work for preparatory studies or in the field of art. It is interesting that these people usually choose the most challenging tasks, and obstacles actually make them stronger instead of causing them hardship. It never bothers them to start the same task again and again until they attain the best possible result. Not many people are as suitable for research activity as Capricorns. 


They are cautious and reliable people that other people trust because tact and discretion are among their good personal traits. Their mind focused on work does not let them to be distracted by a large circle of friends, but if they accept someone, they are faithful to them. They might seem boring to other people, but in the company of people who suit them they are cheerful and funny companions. Their humor is witty, because even in this case they do not succumb to superficiality. 


These people can plan their activities well and they can organize their time in such a way that there is time for both work and rest. Capricorns get on well with their partners, but they often prefer to be alone even if their company is very pleasant. If they were ever heartbroken in their partnership they will rarely start a new relationship. It is the same with marriage. If the spouse of Capricorn does not respect his time schedule and disturbs him at work, he or she must expect that the Capricorn will leave them. Their negative characteristics include pedantry and criticism; they often criticize their loved ones, but they do not spare themselves either. 


Capricorns are very humble people who manage to organize their live in a very practical way in order not to waste their precious time. They climb their career ladder slowly, but their achievements are permanent.


Capricorns are the hardest workers of the zodiac and love nothing more than getting ahead in life. They are ambitious, determined, materialistic and strong. They will keep going when others would’ve given up ten miles back. This makes them great partners in life, as well as friends or collaborators. 


Capricorns tend to keep small circles, but are loyal and supportive of their friends and loved ones. They love creating secure, luxurious ~nests~ and living a comfortable, enviable lifestyle. Living well is important to them. Capricorns are born shrewd, they ~get~ what makes others tick, and they are self-aware of their own needs and traits too. Caps are good people!
To get an idea of the classic Capricorn personality traits and types, we need only to look at some of the most famous celebrity Capricorns: Kate Middleton, Michelle Obama, Dolly Parton, Bradley Cooper, Zayn Malik, John Legend and Liam Hemsworth, to name a few.
Driven to do their utmost best, Capricorns never let themselves off the hook. They're determined to show other people what they're made of. And, let's face it, a little bit obsessed with status and the trappings of success.
Indeed, Capricorns look at everything as a task to be completed, making them an incredibly independent, hardworking type. They can accomplish whatever they set their minds to, regardless of the energy it requires, so long as they have a clear goal and a path for getting there.
This also means, however, that Capricorns can hold other people to incredibly high standards. Because the Capricorn is connected to Saturn, a symbol of restraint and restriction, the Capricorn personality can at times seem distant, emotionless, and overly analytical; therefore, it's important for Capricorns to occasionally relax and get in touch with their feelings through activities such as meditation.
Capricorns value tradition and are typically more conservative in terms of their personality and interests.
Smart, hardworking, and fully in control of their destiny, Capricorn signs will always get what they set their mind to, in both personal and professional life—no excuses. Capricorns may get a reputation as stubborn, but they simply know what they want, and also know how they wish other people would behave.